# cs-330-project
CS-330-T4204 Comp Graphic and Visualization

Since this was my first time using OpenGL, this project helped me understand how we can think of design through the lenses of GPU programming. Thinking of a 3D scene in terms of Vertex Array Objects (VAO) and Vertex Buffer Object (VBO) was a new concept to me. I also used loops in my development when rendering my objects. For instance, to create a glass, I defined the vertices of a fragment of one side of the glass and then I used a loop to render multiple faces rotating them around the center of the glass. I believe that thinking of 3D scenes as a combination of vertices, colors, textures, and lighting, could be helpful in my future work.

The development experience working on my 3D scene was different from what I was used to with other programming paradigms. However, even though I was not familiar with the structure and logic of the code, I used some strategies that I commonly use in other development projects. For example, I focused on making the code modular and reusable. I also tested the code often whenever I made changes to it. Furthermore, I commented my code to make it easier to read. There were many iterations throughout the development of the project and my approach to developing code evolved with each iteration. In each module I learned a different concept of OpenGL and incorporated that in my scene. For instance, we first learned to create shapes, then textures, and then lighting. Each iteration added to the complexity of the scene and made it more realistic.

Computational graphics and visualizations are used in countless areas of computer science. In this class I learned valuable concepts and skills that can be applied in my future educational and professional pathway. Even though I do not intend on becoming a game developer, GPU programming can be applied in other areas such as web development. Moreover, with the increasing popularity of Virtual and Augmented Reality, I believe that this knowledge will become even more valuable.
